Page 01: Пример слайда с содержанием презентации. Перечисли здесь смысловые части своей презентации,  чтобы рассказать слушателям о ходе выступления. ИНСТРУКЦИИ IDLM Inverse-distilled Diffusion Language Models David Li*; 1, Nikita Gushchin*; 2,3, Dmitry Abulkhanov, Eric Moulines1,4, Ivan Oseledets2,3,  Maxim Panov1, Alexander Korotin2,3 1 MBZUAI, Abu Dhabi, UAE 2 Applied AI Institute, Moscow, Russia 3 AXXX, Moscow, Russia 4 EPITA, Paris, France 6 BRAIn Lab, Moscow, Russia * Equal contribution Accepted to ICML 2026
Page 02: Пример слайда с содержанием презентации. Перечисли здесь смысловые части своей презентации,  чтобы рассказать слушателям о ходе выступления. ИНСТРУКЦИИ Team David Li* Dmitry AbulkhanovNikita Gushchin* Alexander KorotinMaxim PanovIvan Oseledets Eric Moulines
Page 03: RoadmapFace  mask to  image Reference 1. Motivation & Overview of Distillation 2. Inverse Distillation 3. IDLM Theoretical Contribution 4. IDLM Non-Smoothness of Discrete Space a. Masked Diffusion b. Uniform Diffusion 5. Sequence-Level Semantics in few-steps? 6. Practical Aspects 7 .Experiments
Page 04: OutlineFace  mask to  image Reference 1. Motivation & Overview of Distillation 2. Inverse Distillation 3. IDLM Theoretical Contribution 4. IDLM Non-Smoothness of Discrete Space a. Masked Diffusion b. Uniform Diffusion 5. Sequence-Level Semantics in few-steps? 6. Practical Aspects 7 .Experiments
Page 05: Challenge: Slow InferenceFace  mask to  image Reference
Page 06: Challenge: Slow InferenceFace  mask to  image Reference Solved via distillation Not exhaustively explored
Page 07: Distillation of continuous Diffusion ModelsFace  mask to  image Reference distillation Consistency-like paradigm 1 Distribution Matching paradigm 2
Page 08: Distillation of continuous Diffusion ModelsFace  mask to  image Reference Consistency-like paradigm 1 Distribution Matching paradigm 2 Better quality   Expensive to train  Worse quality   Cheaper to train
Page 09: OutlineFace  mask to  image Reference 1. Motivation & Overview of Distillation 2. Inverse Distillation 3. IDLM Theoretical Contribution 4. IDLM Non-Smoothness of Discrete Space a. Masked Diffusion b. Uniform Diffusion 5. Sequence-Level Semantics in few-steps? 6. Practical Aspects 7 .Experiments
Page 10: Inverse DistillationFace  mask to  image Reference Forward training Inverse Distillation Given: data distribution Find: diffusion model Given: pretrained diffusion model Find: distribution s.t. Intuition We want to train it so that the optimal diffusion  model learned from its samples matches the given  pretrained diffusion model
Page 11: Inverse DistillationFace  mask to  image Reference Forward training Inverse Distillation Given: data distribution Find: diffusion model Given: pretrained diffusion model Find: distribution  Example of continuous diffusion models  Goal Given Goal Given
Page 12: Inverse DistillationFace  mask to  image Reference Forward training Inverse Distillation Given: samples from Find: diffusion model Given: pretrained diffusion model Find: distribution  Example of continuous diffusion models  Optimization through argmin is not feasible
Page 13: Inverse Distillation loss functionFace  mask to  image Reference Properties   ● и ● if then:  Intuition The inner optimization finds the best diffusion model  trained on (fake model) The generator then minimizes the gap
Page 14: Inverse Distillation loss functionFace  mask to  image Reference Properties   ● и ● if then:  Converse is not true in general Train “fakeˮ model Intuition The inner optimization finds the best diffusion model  trained on (fake model) The generator then minimizes the gap
Page 15: DMD as inverse distillationFace  mask to  image Reference “Fakeˮ model Consider loss: True and fake  minimizers Inverse loss Gradient of it:
Page 16: History of Inverse Distillation Face  mask to  image Reference Accepted to ICML 2025 Contributions ● Introduced the concept of Inverse Distillation ● Established the uniqueness for Bridge Models Accepted to ICLR 2026 Oral Contributions ● Extended the theory for matching models ● Expanded framework with true data Accepted to ICML 2026 Contributions ● Extended the theory for discrete time ● Theoretically compare with DMD framework IBMD 3 RealUID 4 RSD 5
Page 17: OutlineFace  mask to  image Reference 1. Motivation & Overview of Distillation 2. Inverse Distillation 3. IDLM Theoretical Contribution 4. IDLM Non-Smoothness of Discrete Space a. Masked Diffusion b. Uniform Diffusion 5. Sequence-Level Semantics in few-steps? 6. Practical Aspects 7 .Experiments
Page 18: Contributions of IDLMFace  mask to  image Reference Possible problems: We want to extend Inverse Distillation for Discrete Diffusion Models ● Theoretical groundness: ??? ● Non-smooth discrete domain (will clarify later):
Page 19: Theoretical properties: Theoretical ContributionFace  mask to  image Reference IBMD3, RSD5,  SiD6, FGM7 DMD8, DMMD9,  DiDi-Instruct[10] RSD5
Page 20: Theoretical ContributionFace  mask to  image Reference Theoretical properties:
Page 21: Theoretical ContributionFace  mask to  image Reference Theoretical properties:  IDLM DMD-like
Page 22: Connection between Inverse Distillation and DMD-like methodsFace  mask to  image Reference IBMD3, RSD5, SiD6, FGM7 DMD8, DMMD9, DiDi-Instruct[10], DiMO11 DMD-like Inverse distillation
Page 23: Face  mask to  image Reference IBMD3, RSD5, SiD6, FGM7 DMD8, DMMD9, DiDi-Instruct[10], DiMO11 DMD-like Inverse distillation Example of continuous diffusion models  Connection between Inverse Distillation and DMD-like methods
Page 24: Face  mask to  image Reference IBMD3, RSD5, SiD6, FGM7 DMD8, DMMD9, DiDi-Instruct[10], DiMO11 DMD-like Inverse distillation Example of continuous diffusion models  Connection between Inverse Distillation and DMD-like methods How to take gradients?
Page 25: Difference between Inverse Distillation and DMD-like methodsFace  mask to  image Reference IBMD3, RSD5, SiD6, FGM7 DMD8, DMMD9, DiDi-Instruct[10], DiMO11 DMD-like Inverse distillation
Page 26: Difference between Inverse Distillation and DMD-like methodsFace  mask to  image Reference IBMD3, RSD5, SiD6, FGM7 DMD8, DMMD9, DiDi-Instruct[10], DiMO11 DMD-like Inverse distillation DMD loss
Page 27: Difference between Inverse Distillation and DMD-like methodsFace  mask to  image Reference IBMD3, RSD5, SiD6, FGM7 DMD8, DMMD9, DiDi-Instruct[10], DiMO11 “To reduce Inverse Distillation to the standard VSD DMD-like) formulation, the application of a stop-gradient operator is required to  suppress the influence of these auxiliary gradient termsˮ SG leads to this connection, which was noted in RSD 5 DMD-like Inverse distillation Change the full gradient
Page 28: Difference between Inverse Distillation and DMD-like methodsFace  mask to  image Reference IBMD3, RSD5, SiD6, FGM7 DMD8, DMMD9, DiDi-Instruct[10], DiMO11 DMD-like Inverse distillation Change the full gradient DMMD as an example:
Page 29: OutlineFace  mask to  image Reference 1. Motivation & Overview of Distillation 2. Inverse Distillation 3. IDLM Theoretical Contribution 4. IDLM Non-Smoothness of Discrete Space a. Masked Diffusion b. Uniform Diffusion 5. Sequence-Level Semantics in few-steps? 6. Practical Aspects 7 .Experiments
Page 30: Intuition of Masked Diffusion (Teacher model)Face  mask to  image Reference Intuition Unmasking occurs only once during generation, so the transition timestep does not matter. We only need to move to the  correct token. MDLM11
Page 31: Intuition of Masked Diffusion (Teacher model)Face  mask to  image Reference Intuition Unmasking occurs only once during generation, so the transition timestep does not matter. We only need to move to the  correct token. MDLM11 SUBS parameterization
Page 32: Practical Contribution: IDLM-MDLMFace  mask to  image Reference Masked Diffusion
Page 33: Face  mask to  image Reference Masked Diffusion How to take gradient through it? 1 2 1 Practical Contribution: IDLM-MDLM Reparametrization
Page 34: Face  mask to  image Reference Masked Diffusion How to take gradient through it? 1 2 1 Practical Contribution: IDLM-MDLM Reparametrization
Page 35: Face  mask to  image Reference Masked Diffusion How to take gradient through it? 1 2 1  Reparametrization Gradient-stable operation? Practical Contribution: IDLM-MDLM
Page 36: Face  mask to  image Reference Practical Contribution: IDLM-MDLM 1 Simplex relaxation Let the model output points in the simplex
Page 37: Face  mask to  image Reference Practical Contribution: IDLM-MDLM 1 Simplex relaxation Let the model output points in the simplex Potential Issues?
Page 38: Face  mask to  image Reference Practical Contribution: IDLM-MDLM 1 Simplex relaxation Let the model output points in the simplex One-hot  Simplex !The distribution is still valid (sums up to 1!
Page 39: Face  mask to  image Reference Practical Contribution: IDLM-MDLM 1 Simplex relaxation Let the model output points in the simplex One-hot Simplex !Use a weighted sum, not a single value!
Page 40: Face  mask to  image Reference Masked Diffusion How to take gradient through it? 2 Practical Contribution: IDLM-MDLM SUBS parameterization
Page 41: Face  mask to  image Reference Practical Contribution: IDLM-MDLM Masked Diffusion SUBS  parameterization
Page 42: Face  mask to  image Reference Practical Contribution: IDLM-MDLM Masked Diffusion SUBS  parameterization In practice, stop-gradient is  unnecessary, SUBS parameterization  handles everything DMMD 9 DMD-like distillation)
Page 43: Face  mask to  image Reference Practical Contribution: IDLM-MDLM DMMD 9 DMD-like distillation) “To reduce Inverse Distillation to the standard VSD  DMD-like) formulation, the application of a  stop-gradient operator is required to suppress the  influence of these auxiliary gradient termsˮ SG leads to this connection, which was  noted in RSD 5
Page 44: Face  mask to  image Reference Practical Contribution: IDLM-MDLM DMMD 9 DMD-like distillation) This situation is unique to the Masked Diffusion  setting because of the SUBS parameterization used  in the MDLM model. In general, this property does  not hold. We will later demonstrate this difference in  the case of Uniform Diffusion. Unique case of MDLM
Page 45: Face  mask to  image Reference Beyond SUBS parameterization ● SUBS ● Gumbel ● Argmax To pass gradients through the intermediate state, it must be continuous. However, the teacher model was trained on one-hot  vectors and may produce poor signals for continuous inputs. Non-smoothness of teachersʼ input
Page 46: Intuition of IDLM loss: Masked DiffusionFace  mask to  image Reference Intuition The model maximize the signal from the teacher  model (attraction): The model minimize the signal from the fake model  (repulsion):
Page 47: OutlineFace  mask to  image Reference 1. Motivation & Overview of Distillation 2. Inverse Distillation 3. IDLM Theoretical Contribution 4. IDLM Non-Smoothness of Discrete Space a. Masked Diffusion b. Uniform Diffusion 5. Sequence-Level Semantics in few-steps? 6. Practical Aspects 7 .Experiments
Page 48: Intuition of Uniform Diffusion (Teacher model)Face  mask to  image Reference Intuition We need to determine both the timestep at which to make the jump and the specific token to jump to at that timestep. GIDD12
Page 49: Practical Contribution: IDLM-DuoFace  mask to  image Reference Uniform Diffusion How to take gradient through it? 1 2
Page 50: Practical Contribution: IDLM-DuoFace  mask to  image Reference Uniform Diffusion How to take gradient through it? 2The same as in MDLM
Page 51: Practical Contribution: IDLM-DuoFace  mask to  image Reference Uniform Diffusion How to take gradient through it? 2The same as in MDLM 2 Duo parameterization gives Gaussian reparameterization trick The Duo model can accept points from the simplex as inputs, which makes this possible. As a result, the input is smooth. Smoothness of teachersʼ input
Page 52: DMD-like Uniform Diffusion DistillationFace  mask to  image Reference Uniform Diffusion ● with SG ● without SG DMD-like distillation is ineffective in practice for uniform diffusion. In contrast, using gradients from intermediate states yields a  substantially more stable training procedure. Stop gradient  effect
Page 53: Intuition of IDLM loss: Uniform DiffusionFace  mask to  image Reference
Page 54: Intuition of IDLM loss: Uniform DiffusionFace  mask to  image Reference It has the same  intuition as in  IDLMMDLM, but  for distribution at  timestep “tˮ
Page 55: Intuition of IDLM loss: Uniform DiffusionFace  mask to  image Reference Connected with the holding time in the  intermediate state Intuition ● If a generator token has low teacher probability after noising at timestep , the teacher has a short  holding time there, which discourages the generator from predicting it. ● If a generator token has high teacher probability but low fake probability, the generator is even more  strongly discouraged from predicting it. (An attraction/repulsion analogy formulated in terms of  holding times)
Page 56: Overall Intuition of Distribution Matching ParadigmFace  mask to  image Reference In the optimum
Page 57: OutlineFace  mask to  image Reference 1. Motivation & Overview of Distillation 2. Inverse Distillation 3. IDLM Theoretical Contribution 4. IDLM Non-Smoothness of Discrete Space a. Masked Diffusion b. Uniform Diffusion 5. Sequence-Level Semantics in few-steps? 6. Practical Aspects 7 .Experiments
Page 58: Capture semantic of sequences: Mixture of distributionsFace  mask to  image Reference How the model can capture correlation between tokens in factorized regime?
Page 59: Capture semantic of sequences: Mixture of distributionsFace  mask to  image Reference How the model can capture correlation between tokens in factorized regime? Mixture of distributions! Intuition In theory, the generator should sample from the vocabulary space. Thus, during training, its output  distribution is encouraged to approach a delta distribution over vocabulary tokens.
Page 60: Capture semantic of sequences: convergence to the deltaFace  mask to  image Reference Training Intuition For each latent variable, we generate a distinct  delta distribution over the entire sentence,  corresponding to that specific sentence.
Page 61: OutlineFace  mask to  image Reference 1. Motivation & Overview of Distillation 2. Inverse Distillation 3. IDLM Theoretical Contribution 4. IDLM Non-Smoothness of Discrete Space a. Masked Diffusion b. Uniform Diffusion 5. Sequence-Level Semantics in few-steps? 6. Practical Aspects 7 .Experiments
Page 62: Practical implementationFace  mask to  image Reference What latent space do we use in practice? 1 Model initialization & parameterization 2 Challenges in one-step generation A strong initialization, as the teacher already captures text semantics and only its input process requires acceleration. Single-step text generator distillation remains challenging, likely because each latent must collapse to a delta  distribution, causing instability. Inspired by DMD2 13, we adopt multi-step distillation to address this issue, enabling the model to generate samples in a few-step regime Solution
Page 63: Multistep DistillationFace  mask to  image Reference In theory &
Page 64: Multistep DistillationFace  mask to  image Reference In theory & We sample timestep1
Page 65: Multistep DistillationFace  mask to  image Reference In theory & We sample data from dataset2
Page 66: Multistep DistillationFace  mask to  image Reference In theory & We noise it to the chosen timestep3
Page 67: Multistep DistillationFace  mask to  image Reference In theory & We give it as the input to the model4
Page 68: Multistep DistillationFace  mask to  image Reference In theory & Training the model for few-step generation allows us to use the same sampling procedure as the teacher model Sampling MDLM11
Page 69: Putting everything togetherFace  mask to  image Reference
Page 70: OutlineFace  mask to  image Reference 1. Motivation & Overview of Distillation 2. Inverse Distillation 3. IDLM Theoretical Contribution 4. IDLM Non-Smoothness of Discrete Space a. Masked Diffusion b. Uniform Diffusion 5. Sequence-Level Semantics in few-steps? 6. Practical Aspects 7 .Experiments
Page 71: Experiments: IDLM-MDLMFace  mask to  image Reference Best model: 64x acceleration
Page 72: Experiments: IDLM-MDLM (Scaling)Face  mask to  image Reference
Page 73: Experiments: IDLM-Duo/DCDFace  mask to  image Reference Best model: 128x acceleration Best model: 256x acceleration
Page 74: Experiments: IDLM-Duo/DCDFace  mask to  image Reference
Page 75: Links
Page 76: References 1. Yang Song, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Diederik P Kingma, Abhishek Kumar, Stefano Ermon, and Ben Poole. Score-based generative  modeling through stochastic differential equations. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2021. URL  https://openreview.net/forum?id=PxTIG12RRHS. 1. Yaron Lipman, Ricky T. Q. Chen, Heli Ben-Hamu, Maximilian Nickel, and Matthew Le. Flow matching for generative modeling. In  The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations, 2023. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=PqvMRDCJT9t. 1. Valentin De Bortoli, Guan-Horng Liu, Tianrong Chen, Evangelos A Theodorou, and Weilie Nie. Augmented bridge matching. arXiv  preprint arXiv:2311.06978, 2023. 1. Ling Yang, Zixiang Zhang, Zhilong Zhang, Xingchao Liu, Minkai Xu, Wentao Zhang, Chenlin Meng, Stefano Ermon, and Bin Cui.  Consistency flow matching: Defining straight flows with velocity consistency. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.02398, 2024. 1. Mingyuan Zhou, Huangjie Zheng, Zhendong Wang, Mingzhang Yin, and Hai Huang. Score identity distillation: Exponentially fast  distillation of pretrained diffusion models for one-step generation. In Forty-first International Conference on Mach
Page 77: AppendixFace  mask to  image Reference 1. Motivation & Overview of Distillation 2. Inverse Distillation 3. IDLM Theoretical Contribution 4. IDLM Non-Smoothness of Discrete Space a. Masked Diffusion b. Uniform Diffusion 5. Loss Intuition: Sequence-Level Semantics in few-steps 6. Practical Aspects 7 .Experiments
Page 78: Inverse DistillationFace  mask to  image Reference Forward training Inverse Distillation Given: samples from Find: diffusion model Given: pretrained diffusion model Find: distribution
Page 79: Loss Intuition (Teacher model)Face  mask to  image Reference Masked Diffusion Uniform Diffusion Intuition Remasking occurs only once during generation, so  the transition timestep does not matter. We only need  to move to the correct token. Intuition We need to determine both the timestep at which to make the  jump and the specific token to jump to at that timestep.
Page 80: Face  mask to  image Reference Beyond SUBS parameterization: Gumbel Reparameterization
Page 81: Face  mask to  image Reference Beyond SUBS parameterization: Gumbel Reparameterization Potential Problem: The model operates on simplex  vectors but is trained only on  one-hot vectors
Page 82: Face  mask to  image Reference Beyond SUBS parameterization: Argmax Reparameterization Potential Problem: The model operates on simplex  vectors but is trained only on  one-hot vectors
Page 83: Practical Contribution: IDLM-DuoFace  mask to  image Reference Uniform Diffusion How to take gradient through it? 1 2 1 Reparametrization + Simplex relaxation 2 Duo parameterization gives Gaussian reparameterization trick
Page 84: Capture semantic of sequences: What about Entropy?Face  mask to  image Reference Training Intuition For each latent variable, we generate a distinct  delta distribution over the entire sentence,  corresponding to that specific sentence. +
Page 85: Capture semantic of sequences: What about Entropy?Face  mask to  image Reference Entropy = + Entropy of distribution Reduced In practice, the entropy decreases during training  and may eventually collapse, primarily because the  objective minimizes the reverse KL divergence. In practice
Page 86: Related worksFace  mask to  image Reference
Page 87: Experiments: IDLM-MDLM (Additional Latent)Face  mask to  image Reference One step generation is not feasible even in theory for Masked Diffusion Idea Add some additional noise (we tested gaussian) Probably we should test another types of noise, for example Gumbel
Page 88: 