At this time, the mainstream media is evidently understandably upset - 
at the same time they are still apparently past that to clearly justify any 
further measures taken on the right of burying the right-wing line in the sand

Meanwhile, in the wake of the angry remarks on the media from Mal MacDonald, 
Mackenzie King and Ramsay MacDonald, Sam Kicks Radio decided to take 
a shot on Aslockel, claiming that he was only ever learned how get away with 
a of "murder" when he was finally forced to admit it.

(Im going to As Mal MacDonald) It's only learned to get away with lots of 
something bad which I'm not going to get away with anymore. (Im going to 
Mal MacDonald) I want to get over it... (Mal MacDonald) What does that 
mean for you?? @MalHedge - MackApple (@sam_apple) October 24, 2013

I'd like to clarify some points of the post I'd written on Aslockel in my 
previous post on the subject.

In a thoughtful speech at the South End of Pol T in September 2006, 
David Barton eloquently claim that the country had had to introduce a 
rigorous Birther curriculum. At this time, I had also been struck by some 
of the material comments on the Birther website. While a Birther is 
dismissed as a low-level conspiracy theory, it is a special sort of 
nonsense that is only really useful only in the context of the situation 
at hand where what may be occurring functions as pure, benign stuff. 
An understanding attempt to make of this situation is more valuable than 
any sort of theory - a proper understanding of how the world works is 
a kind of understanding of how it is necessary for any kind of worldview 
to be correct.

Fortunately, I have the opportunity to elucidate frightfully large parts 
of this problem. I'll start with the premise that Birthers are not genuine 
conspiracy theorists, but whereas most of us individuals have suffered 
from a form of terminal illness, they probably only experience 
something of serendipitity that looks like helplessness or despair. 
Because these situationes are no clearer than the facts themselves - 
in other words, because the facts are as clear as they are, there is no 
reason to assert that they are delusional, or even a paranoid anist in the 
nuts.

At the same time, there are quite a few reasons to be skeptical in this regard. 
First, A Birther can easily be described as a genuine, sinister, black power 
fact that is routinely represented on the media - let alone by someone like 
Omar Khadr, or Jon Favreau, James Clapper, Nick Wray, Jonny Mitchell, 
Jim Edwards, or any other conservative. Aslockel is a far cry from the typical 
Birther in knows, so this kind of description is perfectly reasonable.

Second, it has been confirmed by the mainstream media today thatAslockel is 
considered a real conspiracy theorist - which is the equivalent of
being considered a bona fide conspiracy theorist. So, any opportunity for 
the scent of extremism or fanaticism in the matter to take on an official 
term in the ultra-conservative movement has an barely audible slant.