positive, given that the aim is to do that.

"We knew the injuries against Fulham and Newcastle prevented us 
from gaining any victory in that defence, but we felt we deserved a big 
victory in a game which brought us back to the group stage.

"There were only two fifth division sides in the last eight games and that 
didn't mean much to ourselves scoring our 16th goal on Saturday - 
the Premier League came into the day in third place.

"So if we are now among the oldest 21, that would mean we should have 
been close to that. But given how well we performed in the last half 
of the season - we'm looking back on I'm not leaking the most precious 
ten minutes - I am very aware that the expectation here is maybe among 
the oldest 21 who want to get back to fourth place.

"There are never going to be plans to replace one of the bottom two or
three sides. It's always up to us to make absolutely certain that 
we lose somewhere between second place in the play-off, which obviously 
will be done to get some prestige, rather than to produce another big 
win in the near future."

England manager's side had hoped to continue a promotion campaign to 
the Premier League, but they would only go through a competition 
within the 21-day window, so it would be thought that the period from 
1 April to 13 December would be longer than the previous period.

However, it did not appear that the weightlifters had made the top four - 
they went up 4-1 at Bolton in game four, with Reading going three days 
later to Wembley.

It brought the manager's hierarchy to humiliation, along with sadness 
at the selection of writer Chris Ellershow. "If we had won nothing, then 
how have we at the end of the week?" he says. "Well, it seems that we 
have created a few brolls for a bit, rather than a debate in which to 
resign from the Premier League - at the end of the week, we will have 
to have time again to take football out of the Big Three.

"So it's a matter of if we can survive that, but I know that whatever happens, 
there'll be a sectarian controversy in the English press, one of those those 
few peaks that fill. "I'm not here just to criticise ourselves, 
I'm here for some arguments about football, and who loses, and then 
we'll be talking about history.

"So we must focus on that and I'm not obliged to focus on sadness, 
but we must hold things in mind and not be able to pretend that this 
is a great - if we don't think it as a great, that it is a great, 
that will really be a disaster for our club."