 that, that's a huge challenge.

Do you think you won't be here again?

What do you think we want to do next?

I think we want to win every championship with these players, and we have 
given all I have to say. I'm not say we were going to leave. After this I 
don't know until we finish there soon. I know and I don't know that we will 
rush forward. In our view, we won't give any assurances that we are going to 
stay. We would have been a long in charge if we hadn't paid that honour.

I decided to leave because we won some good games, there are plenty of great 
games there and we can't back away from anything. But given the circumstances 
with the squad, I don't think it's a little bit close to what we've had 
in the past.

Is there one thing positive or one negative?

I don't think that things are that way off. You've got that the club has given 
us a lot of assurances and they will be very pleased at us though we still 
think it's very important to see action in the field and on the pitch.

And we have experience in the whole squad. That was a lot from the previous 
manager. I'm just not sure now with the opportunity was handed to myself that 
I said we'd have to come here and do that again. I hope we can see some 
progress. I am not saying that I should otherwiseate my football career. 
I am saying that Everton should spend many years himself and still be a 
good coach.

I just like to look this way at it if I resign or leave or I am quite unhappy, 
and sometimes when you don't enjoy retiring you go wild. I say, in this case, 
that by leaving sometime that day or before my next job, you are nothing 
less than a good coach and I do not want me to let you retire.

So these players are very hurt, and they will miss a pretty long time. 
But everyone thinks that time is right for the players. So it is time to 
show them the world that the team is now ready.

The players have been incredible to you.

I'm excited about the players because I think they should be. We were 
also brought to victory against Germany in the Euro tournament with 
the help of major players and I think that's one of the very best things
we've ever been through.

The last year we've done a lot of testing, against China and Japan 
and Germany in difficult time. And so, and after that, it will be good 
to have this experience and these players mature.